Bump github/codeql-action from 3.28.0 to 3.28.1 (#245)
rsksmart/devportal: tutorials/frontend/first-frontend-web3-injected.md

    function getInfo() public view returns (string memory) {
        return info;
    }
}
```

### Register.sol

This smart contract has:

* A variable `info` to store a string
* A function `getInfo()` to return the string stored at variable info
* A function `setInfo()` to change the string stored at variable info

### Compile a smart contract 

In the 3rd button at the left side select Solidity compiler and click in the button Compile Register.sol.

### Deploy a smart contract 

In the left side panel, go to the button Deploy and run transactions. Then click in the button Deploy.

![Deploy and run transactions](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-05.png)

When a smart contract is deployed with Remix, we can see it in the left panel under deploy and run transactions. 

Click on the copy button at right side of the smart contract to copy the address of the smart contract. We will need it for use in the frontend.

![Copy](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-06.png)

![smart contract address](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-07.png)

In my example, the contract address is `0xc864D0fef177A69aFa8E302A1b90e450910A4c3E`.

> # Client-Side Application - The frontend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The front end
```

Reviewer 2: I want to explain that the front end is the part that runs on the user's computer, while everything he did before was the part related to the blockchain. How to say it?

> Now let's start building out the client-side application that will talk to our smart contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's start building out the front end that will interact with the smart contract. 
```

We have only 2 files in the front end:

1. index.html
2. index.js

## Index.html

In Register folder, create a file named `index.html`.

> Copy and paste a smart contract from the following gist, or inline below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy and paste the smart contract from the following gist, or copy and paste the code below:
```

        <h3 class="sub-header">Set information</h3>
        <form class="form-inline" role="form">
          <div class="form-group">
            <table>
              <tr>
                <td><label for="newInfo">Info:</label> </td>
                <td>
                  <input class="form-control" id="newInfo">
                </td>                          
              </tr>
            </table>
          </div>
          <a href="#" onclick="registerSetInfo()" class="btn btn-primary">Set</a>
        </form>
      </div>
    </div>    

    <div class="row">
      <div>
        <h3 class="sub-header">Get last information saved</h3>
        <form class="form-inline" role="form">
          <a href="#" onclick="registerGetInfo()" class="btn btn-primary">Get</a>
          <div class="form-group">
            <table>
              <tr>
                <td>Info:</td>
                <td>
                  <label id="lastInfo">
                </td>                          
              </tr>
            </table>
          </div>                
        </form>
      </div>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>

```

## Index.js

In the `Register` folder, create the file `index.js`.

> Copy and paste a smart contract from the following gist, or inline below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy and paste the smart contract from the following gist, or copy and paste the code below:
```

    console.log("Transaction: ", tx); 
  });
  $("#newInfo").val('');
}

function registerGetInfo() {
  contract.methods.getInfo().call().then( function( info ) { 
    console.log("info: ", info);
    document.getElementById('lastInfo').innerHTML = info;
  });    
}
```

This part connected to RSK Local node using the wallet injected, in our case, Metamask:

```javascript
if (window.ethereum) {
  window.web3 = new Web3(window.ethereum)
  window.ethereum.enable()
}
else if (window.web3) {
  window.web3 = new Web3(window.web3.currentProvider)
}
else {
  window.alert('Non-Ethereum browser detected. You should consider trying MetaMask!')
}
```

# Update index.js

Did you remember the address of the smart contract that you copied after deploying it?

It will be updated here:

```javascript
var contractAddress = '0xc864D0fef177A69aFa8E302A1b90e450910A4c3E';
```

# HTML server

In the `Register` folder, create a file named `server.js`.

```javascript
var express = require('express');
var app = express();
app.use(express.static(__dirname));
app.listen('3300');
console.log('Running at\nhttp://localhost:3300');
```

This file configures the express HTML server.

## Running

> The last step is to execute the express server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to execute the express server. Input the command below into the terminal.
```

```shell
node server.js
```

![node server.js](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-08.png)

In your browser, go to:

```shell
[http://localhost:3300](http://localhost:3300)
```

![register frontend](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-09.png)

# Interact with the smart contract

### Get

Click on the Get button.

It will call the function `getInfo()`at the smart contract instance register.

![getInfo](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-10.png)

> We do not have any info stored, because we did not specify an initial value in the smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not have any information stored, because we did not specify an initial value in the smart contract.
```

### Set

Enter any value in the info text field, and click on the Set button.

It will call the `setInfo()` function at the smart contract instance register, with the info that you defined.

I will enter the value "RSK".

![setInfo](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-11.png)

### getInfo (again)

Now we have the value "RSK" saved, and we can check it.

Click on the Get button again

![getInfo again](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-12.png)

And it returned the info "RSK".

> Great! Now we have information registered in our smart contract, and we can retrieve it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great! Now we have an information stored in our smart contract, and we can retrieve it!
```

# Congratulations!

> You have successfully built your first decentralized application (DApp) powered by RSK smart contracts! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully built and deployed your first decentralized application (DApp) powered by RSK smart contracts! 
```

You can download the full source code to this tutorial here:

[https://github.com/solangegueiros/dapp-register-rsk/tree/master/register-rsk-web3-injected](https://github.com/solangegueiros/dapp-register-rsk/tree/master/register-rsk-web3-injected)

> Happy with this tutorial? I’d appreciate your feedback and share it if you like it :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Satisfied with this tutorial? I’d appreciate your feedback and you can share it :)
```

To install web3.js, input the command below into the terminal and press `enter` at your project location:

```shell
npm install web3 --save
```

More info: 

- [https://web3js.readthedocs.io/](https://web3js.readthedocs.io/)

## Check package.json

`package.json` is a file created by npm with some configurations, including the packages which we installed before using the command `npm init -y`.

After the installations, I will open the project folder named Register in VSCode and verify the file package.json. Let's take a look at the dependencies in the file:

![package.json](/assets/img/tutorials/first-frontend-web3-injected/image-04.png)

You will find the previously installed packages:

```json
 "dependencies": {
   "express": "^4.17.1",
   "web3": "^1.2.6"
 }
```

# Deploy a smart contract

This is explained in detail in the tutorial: 

* [using Remix and Metamask with RSK testnet](/tutorials/ethereum-devs/remix-and-metamask-with-rsk-testnet/)

> I will resume it here:

Reviewer 3: Original thread, but can't comment directly on it because of the file rename I think:

[#245/discussion](https://github.com/rsksmart/rsksmart.github.io/pull/245/#discussion_r407623149)

@owans:

```suggestion
We'll do the same here:
```

@solangegueiros:

No, it is not the same, because in the other tutorial we have more images and more detailed explanations.

Reviewer 3: In this context, resume means that you stopped doing the other tutorial midway, and then now you're going to continue from where you stopped.

I believe that that isn't the intent, so my suggestion:

```suggestion
We'll do the relevant parts of that tutorial here.
```
